I own.
I have a very, very interesting problem here, which is regarding the.
And let's see how to solve this.
And it will be very easy for you now to call this out, right?
And indeed there is diesel battery.
If the sum of its digit is also divisible by three, for example, 702 is divisible by B and will.
Is altered is al-Badri.
Okay.
So this property holds for nine.
Also root eight.
In this problem we will investigate this property for other entities.
Great input starts with an intermediate less than 200.
Okay.
So there are some test cases.
Each case contains three positive indicators avian care.
Okay, so we have the ranges so we can see the range is high.
It is ten days to the power nine kind of range.
It will 15 in and.
Just to avoid overflow.
I'll take long longing.
And what is this?
This is a sacred number, which is key.
And gays on little 1000 10,008.
So for each case output, the case number, and the number of integers in the range e, comma b, which
are divisible by K and the sum of its digit is all to resolve by key.
Interesting point.
The number should really make it so we already know.
Right?
But we have to find it in.
In the range of it to be.
So if if the problem did not contain this part, which is and this amount is the same, then it would
have been very easy.
It is symbolic.
Yubikey minus Iraqi symbol.
Right.
But now what we have to do is we have to also check for the sum of its digit, whether it is divisible
by Q or not.
This is interesting.
They.
How can we solve this?
How can we do this?
Is that easy?
Now, just think about placing deserts at each index if you're placing some digits at a particular location.
Of course, these are records of solution and we have already coded a particular equation out of it.
Will I'll be continuing from that record because it plays only from where I left from there, because,
of course, that we've already done.
I'll continue from there only and we will see how to solve this problem.
It's very easy if you have understood that particular equation.
It means we are placing some digit and will keep on placing digits in which location will hit rate.
Still, it'll be.
What we'll do is we'll find out how many such numbers are there for a particular range.
Let me quickly write it.
Yeah.
Let's say F of x is the function which gives me the numbers which satisfies the property.
02x82.
How many such numbers are there?
So if I want to find out the answer for you to be.
Then what it will be?
It will be F of B minus F of minus one eight.
The total number of such numbers which are between zero.
Do we?
And I subtract how many of them are between 0 to -1?
This will give me deliberate.
How many of them are satisfying the property?
Come.
It'll be.
I hope this is very clear.
This is nothing but like prefix sums.
Right.
But how do you calculate this?
How will you figure out what is this f how will you call this out?
So this thing.
Okay, daunting right now.
Just look at me.
How am I trying to do it?
What I'll do is I'll write a recursive solution which will go over all the digits in the sum of all
the digits.
And I just write a base case and then I'll make you realize the properties of recursion.
So let me quickly write recursion off it.
But this was the last one that we did.
And.
Yeah.
Let me see it.
Maybe.
It's called.
Because.
And simple.
And it should be.
Well.
And let me open a new for you.
So, first of all, let me take this input, which is nothing but three.
Three is a test case.
I.
Okay.
Do you want me to.
Let me start from the beginning.
Let's call it super simple or maybe simple can also do.
But what I need is I want it to be.
Long, long.
Define and as long and just factor.
Well, now we are ready.
Okay.
So first of all, what we're trying to do is I'm not trying to apply a tiny programming solution here.
I just try and writer recursion for this.
I just look to see.
I just apply a normal equation and then I'll make you realize one thing, and then it would be very
clear to all of us.
Let's let me just quickly code the normal recursion for.
Eight.
So we have a comma.
B.
It's Stick, Abby.
Okay, so I have the third integer digit escape.
Three integers.
And of course, all of them are integers.
So what I would suggest is on let me check what are the ranges?
Okay.
So this goes from finder to register about 31 and K goes from till 10,000 on the right.
So those are okay.
I'm taking in as strings and I'm taking kids and teacher elderly away or you yourself realize why am
I doing it?
So you know why I'm digging every string?
Because I have to compare those digits rate.
That would be the.
And then why I'm digging kids and because I take models from key to check whether the number is divisible
by Q or not.
Eight.
So.
And to check with the NumbersUSA wiki and also whether it's some is doable by Kerner.
So yeah, let's go back.
It's going back to the problem.
It simply sees for each case output the case number and number of 20 designated, which are resolved
by key and some of its digit is altered user by key eight.
So.
But let me write a function called Soil Aid and in which I will pass.
And or do you want me to call it F?
This is a function which I've defined here.
It will tell me how many such numbers I did which certified this property from 0 to 8.
So I just pass a number there.
Let's call it ten.
Right.
It will just tell me how many numbers are there from zero to end which satisfies the current property
and what will I find it on?
So it will be nothing but F of B minus F off e minus one.
I hope this is very clear in this fight is this part should be very clear.
Now we are just very taught how to write this function.
It.
What I'll do is I'll just quickly start coding the digital divide here now, which is nothing.
We're just writing a normal equation.
I'm not doing anything.
We're just writing a normal equation that the one that I've already explained.
I'll just see.
Um.
Let's see.
I return and I'll call in the function.
Call all eight.
And in this solver, I'll pass.
I need to pass the index.
We all know we need to pass the index because we have to find we have to make this hold.
And we we need to alter passing value, which is called true.
Let me quickly related.
This is index.
This is this can be a boolean.
And let's call it last.
And what's the third?
What are the properties that I need to find that the number should be resolved by key and the sum of
its digits should also be resolved by key.
Right.
Okay.
What's the best way to figure out whether a number is used by key or not?
And what is the best way to figure it out?
Whether it's some of the duties or not?
Because we are moving digit where digit.
So what I will do is I keep a variable called sum.
And I.
Updated by calling somewhat late.
So if.
Let's see.
Let's take any number later.
Three, four, two, one, eight and two.
If I want to find out whether this number is diesel by three or not, what I what I can do is right
now I'm talking about the number itself and not its digit eight.
So.
It's very simple.
If I have this tree.
So what I can say is I can simply say if three into ten is if three or ten, whatever it makes, plus
for eight into ten.
Plus two into ten.
Plus one.
In Jordan.
I'm just trying to break things for you.
Right, so that you can understand it on the granular level.
Yeah.
Okay.
What is this number?
This number is 330 plus four is 34 in the ten plus two is before two in to ten plus one is this in Jordan
was two is eight.
So indirectly it is this number only, which I'm worried about.
And I if I want to find out.
Whether this particular number is divisible by three or not goes up boundary at every moment.
Whenever I'm multiplying or adding something, let's am placing three, eight and the looping button
and adding four.
Why can't I just always take more it it's always take more than will multiply by ten.
Add two.
Then again we'll take more.
Eight more by three.
More by three.
Because Vino right there.
Mahrez is too beautiful.
What addition and multiplication.
That means if a plus being to see all mauled.
Is equal to a mortem plus B into C mortem.
Right.
It means what I've done.
I've.
I've done nothing.
I'm just walking over.
It's desert.
And I want to know whether the number of diesel by some particular day or not in this case.
So let me quickly like this.
Yeah.
Let's.
Let's call it.
Thumb Mart say.
So this is one part of it.
And this will just tell me whether a number is whether it's some is divisible by three or not.
Right.
I will write this all function completely, but just let's patiently wait and initially I will pause
zero because the number has not been formed.
I'll place digits and keep on adding the digits multiplied by ten and more.
And what is one more thing that we need to worry about?
So.
This some some of Marvel will tell me, but they don't know what it is like or not because I'm multiplying,
adding and form indirectly informing that whole number.
It will tell me within a mystery, make Rebecca or not.
But will it tell me whether it's some of the digital duties like, you know, right before some of digital?
What I can do is I can have another variable, let's call it some of digits might.
Eight.
So in this case, what I'll do is when I place three or four or two or one or two when I'll place this,
that means whenever I'm iterating over all these numbers and trying to place them in this three.
Right.
Exactly what I will do is I'll simply say some digit MAAD is equal to whatever some digit mod was there.
Plus the digit that I place here is that I place here, mart.
Eight more back in place.
And what was it about the previous variable?
Let me quickly rated the previous variable we had a mod is equal to some mod in 210 because now we are
worried about whether the whole number is resolved by key or not.
Rate plus digit.
And when I do this, I just take my bike.
You.
I.
We are getting bored.
These variables, these are very important.
This is what is explained.
a.B, I have to write the equation.
Right?
I have to take this index variable.
I have to take this last variable index and last.
Right.
But I have to take some extra.
A variable as well.
Just to figure out whatever is the property according to the property, that problem is asking me to
I just need to keep count of those edibles also so that when I reach the base case, I can simply check
it.
Let me quickly rate it first.
It's a this is some legitimate, I hope.
Right now, everything is very clear in Italy.
Some legitimate will also be zero.
We have to be.
We have care.
And yeah, I think to know that things are going fine.
So what was that variable?
It is ill and we already know how to formulate this.
So if last is true, then it is equal to.
Thank you.
Now we're going to talk.
Now, here's this one more thing.
These.
The other thing is that.
Whenever I am formulating that equation, it is being called by this function and and I will not be
able to find out.
That means I will not be able to find out that currently I have to figure out the middle earth to be
right in for that case.
What I can do is I can maybe you're going to this thing or let's let's do one thing.
Let's make a.
As an integer only.
And let's right.
Let's call listing.
And and what will this end be equal to and will be equal to?
Okay.
Let's call it underscore in which which I am being parsing here.
And it's a B bars to me was positive integer.
I want to convert it to a string eight and.
Let me convert this to a.
I hope this is clear.
Team in the previous order.
Also, it could have a rate.
I mean, it can go back.
It just about, you know, some convergence to a string.
And in my I mean, this is not the main problem of this situation, but let's call it a bienen.
I'm digging at third string Colin and here and instead of it, let me make it string.
Being underscored, underscoring because we know bees a string is a string, right?
We took them as strings.
Generally we take them as strings.
And what I can simply say, I can simply make this an equals to.
Underscoring.
But in this way, what will happen whenever a F of B is called?
So we will see this listing and will be stored as B and then I'll use the recursion is B, right?
And afterwards when F of A minus one will be called.
Okay, so I can also not do a minus one in this V because is a string.
So yes, I need to change something in this.
Let's let's send it back.
If we change it back to string n and into a coma, become a key.
Eight again, let's get it back to underscoring what I hope you understood.
Eight Whatever the problem suggest you just.
Work accordingly.
I've just converted this underscore ten, which is an integer to a string n, which is global so that
I can use it over here.
Here.
What will happen?
It will be an off index -0 and a zero.
And secondly, will have the other number.
What is the other number?
Nine.
Eight.
These were the two things you are worried about.
Well, I hope you don't confuse here in this thing to end an interesting conversation, because this
is necessary.
This is I mean, look, this is important to convert.
You can't actually figure out the indexes of these numbers.
It.
Okay.
Now let's go over the digits.
The Church will start from 0 to 4 as an equal to all eight.
And what it will do is it will just call on the next functions.
So let me just keep going to the variable answer and we have to return the answer because this time
it is the number of counts where I simply say answer plus equals two just solved for the next index.
That means that I am trying to place this digit on this particular location.
So next index.
And we know the variables we use for last before, last, for use last.
And if this digits is equal to ten, I hope this is clear because.
This will tell me whether it is the last branch of the tree or not.
And this is lost.
It goes to reality.
You know, we are kind of in the place of the previous problem.
In the previous legacy of symbol problem, index placement and lost weight.
No, these are things we just come in with just somewhat.
So this is normal somewhat.
And some more is equal to somewhat less, but some more into N plus the digit rate.
So let me add the digit over here.
I hope this is clear.
They'd do some more plus Dan plus digit and I have to take the more by key also because the numbers
will be large.
And finally, what is the last variable?
The last variable is this some of digit mark.
I need to pass this all to rate.
So some of digit more will be nothing but just added to it.
And it may take a more by key and just regular.
Well, I hope this is clear.
So this the first confusion is you being too strong.
And when you take them, when you will be recording it, you will automatically realize that this this
is the best code that you will see because you have to access the index of a number.
And people do what they do is they take it and they take things that are integers and then they break
down that integer into.
Victim eight so that they can access the index.
But I generally takes things because it's very easy to just do a minor zero.
And you'll simply get the number eight.
Well, so.
Now let's read the base case.
So there has to be a base case.
What will be the base case?
So if index is equal to.
Edwards's.
So this is important.
If indexes he goes to endorse his buy.
Well, I'm not taking A.B. here because I've already converted that he ought to be doing what I was
calling this particular allocation that mirrored generic for both in.
Now, if your next request to NASA is what what are the conditions that needs to be satisfied?
The conditions there needs to be satisfied.
Odd number should really make you wonder.
What I can do is I can simply say if some of my fault is equal to zero because I'm already taking more
moderate evidence will lose all my key.
It's more or less will be zero.
And what is the second thing?
I'm of desert of more is should also be equal to the.
So if both of them is zero, I'll return one by my returning one here because I formulated a number.
I have moved down this recursive ring and in this we I have also kept some more somewhat if some digit
mark and I move to the down of the leave level note where I formulated that particular number.
I have this on more I have this on my Dave.
I just checking now whether there is a key or not.
And.
If it is true, I lived in one because I formulated one particular number and just this number is giving
me true rate.
But till now, all of this is because it's not dynamic programming.
But in just 1/2 it will convert to dynamic programming.
We'll discuss that.
I just written one over here.
Otherwise, if this doesn't hold true, I'll return zero.
I hope this is very fine.
Simply, all of this will be added to the answer.
I would simply written back the answer and let's build it.
Okay.
So what's the problem?
Some more into ten plus digits.
What?
Yes.
Scale the number, right.
The call object.
A bool is not a function or a function point.
But they're doing something wrong.
Yes, I forgot the call.
My head.
It's very tricky to code while teaching.
A better solution is to, you know, find the code and explain the code.
Okay.
No magic we're going to solve.
Okay by visiting.
So because I have installed over here.
Index.
Correct.
And last is a boolean, which is true.
And then I'm putting two zeros.
And it really doesn't meet his answer.
Check by visiting.
There will be miners everywhere.
Minus four.
Okay.
Normally when you'd call for some or of.
It quickly changed its name.
Hollywood.
But it's all right.
Maybe.
Okay.
And so practical to solve.
Let me quickly get back.
Silly mistake, guys.
So this index is not defined any.
Their trade is not able to find the index and instead it is seeing me that is not able to find this
function called solver.
But initially I have to pass the value of index rate.
The first thing you should value of index.
Initially, the index is zero eight.
The last is true and would be sometimes zero.
So now let me build it.
Oh, well.
So what I got, I got 25 or 64 and.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let me be very clear here.
Some of you might be thinking that, yes, there were lots of problems in the code that we faced, but
those problems were necessary.
Right.
Because whenever you at the GDP problem, you have to differentiate between things and because they're
digital.
And the problem is the problem will be given some good big numbers.
That's why we're using digit be in there.
If there are some very small numbers, you can simply trade over them and include the answers.
But we we want some very big numbers.
It's best to take those numbers, strings and formulate your code accordingly.
This thing, because this is one of the easiest problem and just a little tricky to code.
Now, what we can see, we can simply say 25 and 64 eight.
Is this what we're getting?
Yes.
So you can also print print case according to you.
So we have 25 and 64.
Yeah, the answer is correct.
I hope you understand why the answer is correct.
Because this is normal recursion.
Normal occasionally.
I just wrote a recursion book, some mod and some more digits mod in me and finally made the base case.
If both of if the number is the result by zero or three of the numbers, it is a key and it's is.
Your time is already all by key.
Then simply return one.
Great.
Now, let's see.
In the starting of the course, I told you one thing, right, that the dynamic programming is the recursion
plus memorization, right?
Right now, what's happening?
This particular code is going for all the numbers.
It's trying to formulate all the numbers and for all the numbers it is trying to place all the digits.
And then they tell this value tile here.
And the code of this.
So the complexity of this code is huge.
What is the complexity of this recursive code?
It is making all possible numbers write all possible numbers from zero to B or whatever it is.
So let's take B and let's call the complexity of code S of B, because it is going for all the.
It is a win for all of us to leave.
No, they will be all be numbers, but it will return one or zero and then it will sum up.
Then I must return it back to me.
It's a let's call it or B right now.
Just.
Pause the video here and think about that.
How many indexes were there?
Like how many different values of indexes are there?
The different values of indexes are mirrored.
Pace.
Right.
Which in that case, if I talk about this, it is.
Good is doable.
31 is around ten days to the power nine.
Right.
So I'm just taking nine at max budget sizes because tonight that means the length of the number is nine
eight.
Now, tell me, what how many values are lost out there?
There are only two values of last eight.
The last is.
Either true or false.
This was index.
This is last.
They do not tell me how many some more values can be there.
So we know that we are always taking more back.
Right.
So if I take my back of any number, then we can always say that the number is between zero and Q minus
one.
Fate was determined.
If I did the remainder of England were any of the number eight will be between zero and minus eight.
Basically some mould.
Rely between 0 to -1 to how many different values of smart can be there?
EE eight And now tell me.
Some digit.
So similarly there's some legitimate is also being a bitcoin marred by rate but at most it can go to
K minus one eight.
So it is also from zero to K minus one.
So how many different values of some digital model did it look?
How many total different values?
I mean, how many total different deep states are possible of this recursive solution?
I know that.
This tree will go on these trees moving downwards and it is, you know, spreading and it is going for
all possible numbers.
But just think about it in this way.
At how many different speeds are possible is nine into two into Kentucky?
Right.
Which is nothing but Gay Squire didn't do it in.
These many deep states will be there even if I go for any number which is less than two days to Dubai
with 31.
But any number and let it be the question to raise to about 31 minus when.
But this also for this also there will be gays quite into it being stewards on the right because we
saw that these are very different.
These are the maximum different values index last somewhat and some digit margin.
Right.
So what can I realize here that I can have at most?
He liquidated the large size, which is nine.
Eight.
Nine on lipstick.
Ten a but human look.
Ten into the last two is only true or false.
Someone goes to key.
And this also goes to we have these many different dates of this discussion.
If you have only these many different styles of recording, how much is Keith quite entertaining.
Let's check the damage to the barber for Esquire in ten will witness to Barber 98.
So I hope you're getting the point here.
So.
Yeah.
So it's very easy.
You know, what you can simply do is you can simply try to memorize this particular recursive problem
and we can simply place memorization over here.
Like the memo and let's call it 1042.
Let's call it okay.
And let's call it.
Yeah, but we have taken a memo bed.
What we will simply do will simply memo said memo minus one side of memo.
Whenever we are calling anything, we are calling any recursive.
Good.
We'll just marmoset it.
And we all know how to.
Work with mammal bird flu.
Mammal Index.
Last will just simply memorize it and will take some old.
And then we will simply see some injured.
Mort.
Eight.
And this will be the member for us and before this before adopted the base case.
What I ultimately do ultimately say if I, I already have this answer, it means if this.
Is not equal to minus one.
I looked at this.
I hope this is very clear.
This is nothing memorization.
We are all we have already been doing this.
But this is important to realize it will have very listed.
So in this case we can see that there are.
There are too many stories of at least our nine eight.
And we'll also discuss some follow up optimizations of this problem.
But I hope you have understood this part.
How is a recursion being converted to a dynamic?
In the case of digit GP, this is the most important part index in last, which you have already understood.
And these two values are based on a particular problem.
So.
But these are based on a particular problem rate.
And of course, there will be some other properties also by which we can further reduce the number of
seats here.
If we can reduce the number of states further, then the problem will be optimised more.
So we can see it is a multi-dimensional deep aid because we have four dimension.
Well.
So thank you, everyone, for watching this.
And I hope you.
Understand what's going on in the.
These are deep and will be solving like many problems after this.
And we'll see how all those problems are solved using legitimate.
Thank you all.